# How it works

1. The library keep track of the execution order with two counters. One is increased every time mb_query is called [qid_cnt], and the other counter [qid] is increased when a query finishes, with or without error. If mb_query is called and the two counters are equal, then the library know it's that particular queries turn to be executed.

2. When a query executed, it will start by determined the length of the query, by counting the number of bytes of data_ptr. This in one of many nice features of the library.

3. Then the query will start with transfer its parameter to a internal memory. If it's a write query it will also serialize and transfer the content of data_ptr, into an internal buffer. When this is done, a flag is set indicating that a new query is ready to be processed.

4. The controller, (mb_master_ctrl or mb_client_ctrl) is the FB that contain the modbus blocks that come along with TIA-portal. The FB see that a query is ready and it will process it. This may take many plc-scans, when the result come back from the modbus device, the controller will send a message to the query about the arriving result.

5. The same query, gets the message about the finished query. Now it will check its parameters, with the internal parameters. The two counters mention in step one will not give hundred percent certainty, because a query can be surrounded by a if-statment that change state, and there will be a offset on the counters. So to be sure that a result from one query doesn't end up in one other, the parameter is used as extra layer of safety.

6. If it's a read query it will deserialize the buffer and transfer the content into data_ptr.

7. The second counter [qid] will be increased, and the next query will be executed starting from step one.

8. When all queries has been carried out, the first counter [qid] will be reseted back to the first query, and the process will repeat itself. The code that resetting of the counters is located inside the FB mb_internal_e.

### Station blocks

Then there is the station block. With mb_station_header and mb_station_foother, everything become more complex. This two FC's are manipulating variables inside mb_query to make a more responsive execution of the queries. The variables qid, qid_cnt and insert are the main target of manipulation.

#### mb_station_header

This function block will record the maximum value qid_cnt and set the value to this. Setting a fixed value at this point of execution, prevent the impact of setting a if-statement around a query.
```pascal
...
if __statement__ then
    #mb_query( ... );
end_if;

// The if-statement can affect this query.
#mb_query( ... );

“mb_station_header”( ... );

// The if-statement will not affect this query 
// becouse mb_station_header is between.
#mb_query( ... );
...
```

#### mb_station_foother

The two FC's are working together, and neither will work without the other, however the code for most of the nice features are located in the foother FC.






