### Debugging

- Try to increase timeout.
- Check datasheet of device for special requirement: function codes supported, max data length, register required to be queried together, etc.
- Compare your application with the example.
- The latest version of the library should be used, see the versjon number at the top inside mb_query.
- All queries need to be executed in same order, implicates from the same OB.
- Look insdie the data blcok of the SB of the device that having problem, and locate «#sb.log...», see if the counters are running and lookup the error code of «#sb.log.error_status», «#sb.log.error_data_addr» will tell witch query generating the query. 
- Locate «#mb_query.z.run.qid» (the DB), if there are more then one query in your program this variable should change value rapently. 
- Locate «#mb_query.z.misc.err» (the DB). Look up the error code of serialize and deserialize in tia-portal help manual.  
  - The data of one query includes bools, where the number dosen't add up to a whole byte, 8 bits.
  - The query length is longer then 125 words.
- If mb_station_block_header has executed in one block then mb_station_block_foother also need to be executed. Cheack that there is no RETURN or simular between them.
- Restart the PLC if this is the first time the problem occurs.
- Try to comment out sections of the queries and see if it solve the problem.


#### General for modbus RTU
- All the devies on the bus has unique address.
- Parity, buard rate, stop bits should be the same in all devices.
- Electrical polarity
- hardware id,

#### General for modbus TCP
 - IP-address, 
 - TCP-port, 
 - Unic connection id.

